                                     ELASTIC BEANSTALK 
1. Elastic Beanstalk is a developer centric view of deploying an appliction on aws 
2. what it does that it uses already created components by developer instead of developers re-using them again and creating them again 
3. it is a managed service 
- it automatically handle capacity provisioning , load balancing , scaling , application health monitoring and instance configuration 
 NOTE: just the appliction code is the responsibility of the devloper 


                                     ELASTIC BEANSTALK COMPONENTS
 1. Application: collection of elastic beanstalk components (environments , versions,configurations)
 2. Application version: an iteration of your appliction code 
 environment 
3. collection of AWS resources running an application version (only one aplication version at a time)
4. TIERS : webserver envirronment tier & worker environment tier 
                    you can create mutliple environments (dev, test , prod )

5.     webserver tier vs worker tier
a. webserver tier:
                  In the webserver tier all users can access the application using the ELB  


b. worker tier:  
                        In the worker tier no user can access the applicaiton messages are sent to the application using and 
                        SQS queue which forwards the message to an ec2 insrance and the ec2 instrance are the workers. 

they are scaaled based on a the number of sqs messages 


NOTE: you can push messages from the webserber environment to the worker environment 

                             ebs beanstalk deployment modes 
    
there are two deployment modes 

1. SINGLE INSTANCE GREAT FOR DEV 

 In this deplpyment mode , there is an elastic IP , EC2 instance and a rds master based on the single instance 

 2. HIGH AVAILABILITU WITH LOAD BALANCER GREATE FOR PRODUCTION 

 In this deployment mode there is an ALB which talsj to instance in various AV zones and there is and RDS master and read replicas 
